---
title: "[Swift][TIL] Structure vs Class"
sidebar_main: true
categories:
  - iOS
tags:
  - appdev
  - swift
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "Swift✈️"
---

# TIL (Today I Learned)

1. When should you use Structure?
2. When should you use Class?
3. Summary

----------------------------------------------

Structure and Class sure do seem very similar. For me, I didn't understand why you need a structure when you have class. Let's dig in and find out why. 

# 1. When should you use Structure?

- Simple data type
- No inheritance

1 and 2 go together! If you want an object that you can pass around without any dependencies, structure is what you should use. It's just simpler to use structure. Which also means that if you do not need any inheritance, you should choose structure over class. 

- Thread safety

This was new for me. When you run a code, many things run on different threads. When instances are shared and accessible from multiple threads, it's possible to have deadlock or race conditions. In this case, structure is thread-safe.

----------------------------------------------

# 2. When should you use Class?

- For polymorphism

When you use class, you can inherit other class. You can overload and override. (note - Structure can implement protocol, can extend, and can work with generics)

- For reference type use

Class is a reference type. Which means that it can implement a deinit function. Also, you can make multiple references to the same class. Also you can use identity operator === to check if two references (variables, constants, properties, etc) refer to the same object.

- For Objective-C

If you want to interop between Swift and Objective-C, you need to use class.

----------------------------------------------

# 3. Summary

||Class|Structure|
|Type|Reference Type|Value Type|
|Inheritance|Able|Unable|
|Storage|Heap|Stack|
|Initializer|Define initializer manually|Automatic default initializer|
|Thread-safe|Not fully thread-safe|Thread-safe|